---
layout: posts
title: 2020 Covid-19 Season Update
---

It has now been announced that return to play protocols for the 2020 outdoor
season of play have been approved by the Manitoba Soccer Association (MSA),
Sports Manitoba and the Canada Soccer Association (CSA). Sanctioned Activities
will be allowed to begin as early as June 17th beginning with Stage 1:
non-contact training.  

The timeline of when we will be able to move into Stage 2 (limited contact
training) and Stage 3 (Resumption of Competitive play) will be determined by
the MSA and in conjunction with provincial health authorities and will be
dependent on how the provincial Covid-19 cases progress as activities resume.
The MSA along with CSA and provincial health authorities can make adjustments
to the return to play stages and guidelines as deemed necessary for the safety
of participants.  

All players will be required to complete a one time waiver and to review parent
and player protocols prior to participating in any activities. This
information will be sent to team groupings in the coming days through the boys
convenor and myself for girls as acting girls convenor. Expect this information
by early next week as well as an update on fee structure changes which may
occur depending on how the season of play progresses.  

I am also requesting that anyone who is able to volunteer respond to this
notice ASAP. At this time, many age groups for both male and female players do
not have volunteers for coaching. Without those volunteers we will not be able
to get those players and teams back out on the field.  

As we move into this next stage and return to seeing players out on the field
of play, I thank everyone for their on-going patience and support as the soccer
community adjusts.   

Take Care,   
Erin Beyko  
*President-Charleswood Youth Soccer Association*  

