---
layout: posts
title: 2020 Covid-19 Update
---

As we continue to adjust to the current Covid-19 pandemic, and its impacts to
our daily lives we at CYSA continue to see a great spirit of community from our
members.  Players have continued to work on their skills independently,
families are getting active together and teammates are finding unique ways to
stay in touch and share their love of the game.  

Today the Manitoba government released its draft of ‘Phase 2 – Roadmap to
Recovery’ which includes the resumption of team sports. This is a positive step
in the right direction however each sport’s governing bodies must put in place
“Return-to-Play Protocols” before the resumption of any sanctioned activities.  

Manitoba Soccer Association has been working hard towards the development of
these guidelines and will be releasing them once provincial approval is in
place. We at CYSA continue to plan and prepare to be able to meet these
guidelines and will be prepared to resume activities as soon as it is deemed
safe and possible to do so.  

This return-to-Play will look different than the soccer activities we have
become accustomed to. Soccer will not return to its regular format immediately.
A return to play will take place over a period of weeks and/or months and will
include multiple stages. It is anticipated we will begin with non-contact
training, then move to limited contact training, and eventually to the
resumption of competition and league play.  

At this time, any team events or activities are NOT sanctioned by the Manitoba
Soccer Association and will not be until at least June 7th.  This includes any
type of team get together, scrimmage, match or practice. This will be reviewed
on a week to week basis as preparations are made and updates can be released.
Due to the uncertainty of the situation as it continues to evolve CYSA is not
able to speculate on specific dates on which a return to play will begin.  

In order to eliminate any confusion when updates are released all information
will continue to be sent directly to registered members by the CYSA president
as well as posted to our Facebook page rather than relayed to members through
their respective coaches. These updates will include any guidelines and
protocols which players, parents, coaches and team managers will be required to
follow.  

Thank you once again for your patience as the soccer community works to get
players back out on the field.  

Erin Beyko  
*President-Charleswood Youth Soccer Association*  

