---
layout: posts
title: 2020 Outdoor Season update
---

The U9-U18 divisions continue to anticipate a 2020 outdoor season which will
likely involve a delayed start to the season of play and play extended into the
summer months.  

CYSA and the broader soccer community are preparing to resume play quickly once
given the green light to resume activities. Further updates on the season of
play for U9 to U18 teams will continue to be updated as that information
becomes available through our governing bodies.  

House league or mini soccer players U3 to U8 however play a unique format with
unique needs that places 200+ people on an individual field at a time.  With
the current situation concerning Covid-19 and social distancing, offering a
safe experience, under regular season conditions, does not seem possible.  

Out of an abundance of caution this has prompted CYSA to make the difficult
decision to cancel the house league season of play for the 2020 spring season.
A refund will automatically be issued to those U3 to U8 players registered.  We
must ask for your patience as the administrative needs to process such an
unprecedented volume of refunds may take 4 to 6 weeks to complete.  

Our focus for these ages will now go into developing a summer program which
will be better able to address the unique concerns of house league play in
relation to Covid-19 precautions.  We are hopeful that a summer session which
allows us to better protect players and their families alike can be organized
and implemented.  

An update on the possibility of a summer session for house league will be
posted by early to mid-June on our website Charleswoodsoccer.com and on our
Facebook page.  Depending on the timeline of a return to play we hope to get
all ages of players back out onto the field as quickly as possible.  

We thank you for your continuing patience and hope that you each stay safe and healthy.  

Take Care,  
Erin Beyko  
*President-Charleswood Youth Soccer Association*  


