---
layout: home
title: Indoor Recreational Soccer
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/splashB_v1_1280.jpg
sidebar:
  nav: "programs"
---
**Indoor Recreational Programs Additional Information**

Participation in indoor soccer is encouraged for those with a strong interest in
the game as it provides for continuous skill development year round. Indoor
soccer is a unique challenge offering players the opportunity to excel at the
game in a fast paced environment.

This program is offered to all players in the U9 to U18 age divisions as
determined by year of birth. Each division is divided into boys and girls teams
with players being randomly allocated to rosters. The divisions are further
separated into two age groupings; U9 to U12 and U13 to U18. The teams in each
division will play matches against other teams governed by WYSA at various
venues across the city of Winnipeg and surrounding communities.

**Season of Play**

Teams will generally play twice a week one refereed match at various indoor
facilities and one practice in a local gymnasium. The practice location and
night varies from team to team depending on availability. Additional practice
time on a turf surface will also be provided.

Boys teams typically play on Sundays and girls teams on Saturdays. Depending on
the number of teams in a division as well as field and referee availability
Thursday or Friday evenings may also be utilized as an alternative.

U9-U12

No scores or standings are kept and the season of play runs from October until
March with a two week break at the end of December.

U13 - U18

Scores and standings are tabulated by the Winnipeg Youth Soccer Association
(WYSA) for the U13-U18 divisions. The regular season of play runs from October
until January with a two week break at the end of December. The Cambrian
Challenge Play offs are held in February and March culminating in a final with
the top two teams from each division competing for the Cambrian Challenge Cup.

**Game Format**

Game play differs significantly from the outdoor season of play. All teams play
on fields which are approximately a quarter the size of a full size field with
proportionally sized nets. U9 - U12 divisions play 7 players a side, U13 - U18
divisions play 6 players a side. This results in a very fast paced game which is
a unique challenge to players. All matches consist of two 30 minute halves with
a one minute break between halves.

The FIFA Laws of the Game are enforced, except where revised by Winnipeg Youth
Soccer Association (WYSA) Rules and Regulations.

The WYSA Rules and Regulations related to recreational indoor play, mainly
address these areas:

-   Changes to standard field sizes

-   Changes to the number of players on the field

-   Changes to the allowance of substitutions.

-   The removal of offside.

-   Any other changes as deemed necessary.

**Skill Development**

The [Long Term Player
Development](https://www.canadasoccer.com/files/CSA_2009_W2WC_Brochure_EN.pdf) (LTPD)
model continues to be followed which encourages success through a positive and
supportive environment. All players receive equal playing time.

Practice time remains an important and vital part of the game, as the necessary
technical and tactical skills cannot be learned with only regular game play. The
emphasis in practice is on team play and on developing and enhancing skills
involving controlling the ball (dribbling, receiving, stopping), passing, and
shooting. U13 - U18 teams also work on developing more advanced soccer
techniques, tactical awareness, self-discipline and more detailed specific
positional skills. 

**Tournaments**

During the indoor season teams have the option of registering to play in
additional tournaments. Teams can participate in any tournaments which qualify
for sanctioning either locally or internationally. Whether a team chooses to
participate in a tournament is up to the coach and players as tournament fees
and associated costs are not included in the cost of regular registration and
will require additional fees.

**Coaching**

The coaches and other team officials are all volunteers who are often the
parents or family members of players on the teams, many with a personal interest
in soccer or simply an interest in helping the team. Coaches at this level are
required to complete screening, expected to receive certification in a number of
courses and to follow specific rules and regulations.  
  
On teams in which the coach and assistant coach are both of the opposing gender
than the players, a same gender adult must also be present on the bench during
all matches. This person is not required to have passed a background check.

**Game Volunteers**

One volunteer from each team is required at every match. Spectators should
anticipate this need and volunteer willingly to fulfill this role as matches
cannot commence unless this volunteer is in place and noted on the game sheet.

The role of the volunteer is Referee Liaison. It is the Referee Liaison's job to
control the behavior of their teams spectators, warning them politely to stop
any misbehavior. They should not confront spectators from the opposition, but
submit a report to WYSA if they witness improper conduct.

**Spectators**

Spectators are expected to follow the CYSA Code of Conduct at all times.
Spectators must remain in the stands. No spectators are authorized to enter the
field of play, change rooms, or change room corridors at any time. The only
possible exception is a same gender adult who must be requested by the team
officials and noted on the game sheet.

**Referees **

A referee and assistant referee is assigned for each match. All referees must be
shown respect and courtesy at all times. The referees, regardless of age, have
authority over the entire game. Examples of this authority are:

-   To disallow a player from participating in a match due to improper or unsafe
    equipment.

-   Present a Yellow or Red card to a player or coach for unsafe, disrespectful
    or abusive behavior, at their discretion.

-   Dismiss a spectator from the field if they are being disruptive.

-   Stop, suspend or abandon a game for any offences or because of outside
    interference from spectators.

Relevant quote from *FIFA Laws of the Game 2017/2018*:

"The decisions of the referee regarding facts connected with play, including
whether or not a goal is scored and the result of the match, are final. The
decisions of the referee, and all other match officials, must always be
respected.

The referee may not change a decision on realizing that it is incorrect or on
the advice of another match official if play has restarted or the referee has
signaled the end of the first or second half (including extra time) and left the
field of play or terminated the match."

There is a serious problem with youth referees choosing not to stay in the
referee program in their later teen years and into adulthood. The main reason
for this is the intimidation and abusive treatment by coaches and parents. Abuse
of a referee at any age will not be tolerated.

Show your support for the team and the game by being respectful and supportive
of the referees.

**Equipment**

Each player is asked to use the same jersey, shorts and socks used during the
previous outdoor season of play. If a player did not play on a CYSA team these
items will be provided and are theirs to keep. Players will also need to provide
their own shin pads, water bottle, indoor only cleats, and practice runners or
flat soled soccer shoes. It is also recommended that each player bring a
regulation sized ball to practice (U9-U10 Superlight size 4, U11-U12 size 4,
U13-U18 size 5).

**Official Rules:**

[WYSA Indoor Rules and
Regulations](http://winnipegyouthsoccer.com/files/2017-18_indoor_rules_-_quarter-field_version_october_2017_-_final2.pdf)  
  
[FIFA Laws of the Game
2017/2018](https://www.fifa.com/mm/Document/FootballDevelopment/Refereeing/02/90/11/67/Lawsofthegame2017-2018-EN_Neutral.pdf)
