---
layout: home
title: Soccer Programs Overview
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/splashB_v1_1280.jpg
sidebar:
  nav: "programs"
---
**CYSA Recreational Programs**  
  
Charleswood Youth Soccer Association (CYSA) offers recreational soccer
programming based on the long term player development model (LTPD) for youth
living in the Charleswood, Headingley and neighboring rural areas.Â 

Our mission is to provide programming and skill development opportunities to any
child who is interested in the game of soccer in order to enhance their
social/emotional and physical health, in a positive and safe environment. Our
goal is to create individuals who remain active for life and who strive to
achieve.

Each individual program or division focuses on the unique developmental needs
and physical literacy of each players age group. By developing skills based on
the age and stage of each child we can provide a fun and supportive environment.

Registration details for all divisions and each season of play will be posted on
the CYSA website at least one month prior to opening date of registration. This
will include the opening and closing dates of that seasons registration period.
Indoor typically opens in late August. Outdoor typically opens in late February.

The programs offered for the outdoor season of play are:

**1. House League or Mini-soccer**

For children 3-8 years of age this is an introductory program to the game of
soccer. Play is two nights a week, either Monday and Wednesday or Tuesday and
Thursday. Each player receives equal playing time, and no scores or standings
are kept. The emphasis is on developing an enjoyment of the game in a fun and
supportive environment. Teams are all in house which means that they play with
other CYSA players and teams at a single location with multiple fields
throughout the season. The season runs throughout May and June concluding with
the CYSA mini-soccer Jamboree, a Canada Soccer's Active Start Soccer Fest.

**2. District Recreational Soccer**

For players in the U9-U12 age divisions. Play is generally three times a week:
two matches, on either Monday and Wednesday or Tuesday and Thursday and one
practice. Each player receives equal playing time and no scores or standing are
kept. The focus is on skill development and learning the rules of the game in a
fun and supportive environment. Teams are separated by gender and matches are
played against other teams within the district at several locations throughout
the St. Charles/Charleswood area. The season starts in the first week of May and
concludes with the WYSA LTPD Jamboree at the end of June.

**3. City or WYSA Recreational League**

For players in the U13-U18 age divisions. Play is generally three times a week:
two matches, on either Monday and Wednesday or Tuesday and Thursday and one
practice. Each player receives an equal amount of playing time and is encouraged
to continue developing skills and take on a more active decision making role.
Scores and Standings are kept and while the focus remains on creating a fun and
supportive environment there is a competitive aspect to play. Teams are
separated by gender and matches are played throughout Winnipeg and surrounding
areas. The regular season runs from the first week of May through to the end of
June with play resuming in September for the Cambrian Challenge Cup/play-offs.

The programs offered for the indoor season of play are:

**Indoor Mini-Soccer**

This program has been designed for players in the U4 to U8 divisions. It
provides players with the opportunity to continue developing soccer skills and
to stay active through the winter months. The program is co-ed and play is once
a week for an 8 week period from January to March.

**Indoor Soccer**

The Winnipeg Youth Soccer Association governs this program. This program is for
players in the U9-U18 divisions. All teams are separated by gender and all
players receive an equal amount of playing time. Play is twice a week with one
match per week and one practice in gym space on a weekday evening. Additional
practice time on a turf surface is also provided. All matches are played at
indoor turf venues within the city of Winnipeg.

For teams in the U9-U12 divisions each player receives equal playing time and no
scores or standing are kept. The focus is on skill development and learning the
game in a fun and supportive environment.

For teams in the U13-U18 divisions. Scores and Standings are kept and while the
focus remains on creating a fun and supportive environment there is a
competitive aspect to play.

The season begins in early to mid October with a two week break at the end of
December with the U9-U12 season ending in March. The U13-U18 teams regular
season concludes in January with the Cambrian Challenge Cup/Play-offs taking
place in February and March.

**Developmental and Premier Programs**

These programs are run by the district, CYSA's parent organization of St.
Charles Soccer Association (SCSA) and are known as the St. Charles Force. Any
player who qualifies as a CYSA resident has the option to join the St. Charles
Force.

The Developmental Program is offered for players in the U9-U12 age divisions who
have a strong interest in the game and who hope to achieve a higher level of
competitive play. The district association will conduct evaluation sessions,
where based on these assessments they will form as many equally balanced teams
as possible. Every reasonable effort will be made that if a child registers and
wishes to play at this level, they will be given the opportunity to do so.

The Premier and Premier Developmental Leagues are offered for players in the
U13-U18 age divisions. Players interested in the Premier and Premier
Developmental Leagues must understand that these competitive programs require an
intense commitment to the game and players go through an evaluation process
before being offered a team position.

These programs require a player assessment and as such the registration process
begins much earlier. Those who are interested in playing at this level are
encouraged to visit the [St. Charles website](http://www.stcharles-soccer.com/)
for more information as early as possible.

As all fees and registration for The Force are addressed by SCSA, players who
would like to reserve a space in the recreational program in case they are not
able to play at this level must complete a separate CYSA pre-registration (no
fee) within their age appropriate division and inform the CYSA registrar.

Only those who have pre-registered can be guaranteed space within the
recreational program if the player is not offered a roster position with a Force
team.

**UNDER DEVELOPMENT**

**Adult soccer - Charleswood Legacy Teams**

One of the primary goals of CYSA is to create players who are active for life
and who continue to participate in soccer as adults.

In order to encourage players to do so and in celebration of the associations
50th anniversary in the fall of 2018 the first adult league team was introduced
for graduates of CYSA.

All legacy teams will be expected to follow the governance of their respective
leagues and may only use the team name, Charleswood Legacy, with the permission
of CYSA.

While support in the form of coaching and administrative needs will be provided
by the CYSA executive all costs associated with these teams will be covered by
the individual team and players.

This endeavor will remain under development for the next few years as policies
and best practices for its governance continue to be determined.
