---
layout: home
title: WYSA Recreational Soccer
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/splashB_v1_1280.jpg
sidebar:
  nav: "programs"
---
**City or WYSA Recreational League Additional Information**

Recreational League players continue along the long term player development
pathway focusing on a positive experience developing in players a genuine love
for the game who have an active for life mentality while playing in a more
competitive environment.

This program is designed for players in the U13 to U18 age divisions as
determined by year of birth. Each division is divided into boys and girls teams
with players being randomly allocated to rosters. The teams in each division
will play matches against other teams governed by WYSA at various venues across
the city of Winnipeg and surrounding communities.

**Season of Play**

Scores and standings are tabulated by the Winnipeg Youth Soccer Association
(WYSA) culminating in a round robin play off and the chance to compete for the
Cambrian Challenge Cup. Teams typically play two matches a week.

The season runs from early May until late June resuming in September for the
Cambrian Challenge play offs. Each team is guaranteed a spot in the play offs in
either a single division or more commonly divided into an A and B side. The two
top teams, from each division will, after a round robin series, compete for the
Cambrian Challenge cup in a final which concludes the season of play.

U13,U15 and U17 divisions generally play on Tuesday and Thursday evenings, with
the possibility of some Sundays depending on the number of teams in a division
as well as field and referee availability.

U14, U16 and U18 divisions generally play on Monday and Wednesday evenings, with
the possibility of some Fridays depending on the number of teams in a division
as well as field and referee availability.

Each team will also have a dedicated practice once a week. The time, location
and dates of which will vary depending on team needs and field availability.

**Game format**

Game play now mirrors adult play with some modifications such as the allowance
of unlimited substitutions. Matches are played on a full size field with full
size nets and 11 players a side under a variety of competitive conditions.

The length of matches is also modified depending on age division:

-   U13 and U14: Two 35 minute halves with a 5 minute break in between.

-   U15 and U16: Two 40 minute halves with a 5 minute break in between.

-   U17 and U18: Two 45 minute halves with a 5 minute break in between.

The FIFA Laws of the Game are enforced, including offside, except where revised
by Winnipeg Youth Soccer Association (WYSA) Rules and Regulations

**Skill Development**

The [Long Term Player
Development](https://www.canadasoccer.com/files/CSA_2009_W2WC_Brochure_EN.pdf) (LTPD)
model continues to be followed which encourages success through a positive and
supportive environment. While all players still receive an equal amount of
playing time, players now also tend to specialize in specific positions.

At this stage players are provided instruction on concepts such as mental
preparation, set plays, and coping with winning and losing while learning more
advanced soccer skills including position specific techniques. As players
continue to develop techniques, players also work on developing their tactical
awareness, discipline and mental toughness.

Practice is an important and vital part of the game, as the necessary technical
and tactical skills cannot be learned through regular game play only. The
emphasis during practices is on developing and enhancing skills through the use
of small sided games and activities. 

**Tournaments**

Teams have the option of registering to play in tournaments which are in
addition to the regular season of play. Teams can participate in any tournament
which qualifies for sanctioning either locally or internationally.

Whether a team chooses to participate in a tournament is up to the players and
coaches as tournament fees and associated costs are not included in the cost of
regular registration and will require additional fees.

Tournaments outside the province of Manitoba do require additional planning.
CYSA executive members will be able to assist and advise teams of what
requirements they need to meet in order to participate in a travel tournaments
or any other special event.

**Coaching**

The coaches and other team officials are all volunteers who are often the
parents or family members of players on the teams, many with a personal interest
in soccer or simply an interest in helping the team. Coaches at this level are
required to complete screening, expected to receive certification in a number of
courses and to follow specific rules and regulations.  
  
On teams in which the coach and assistant coach are both of the opposing gender
than the players, a same gender adult must also be present on the bench during
all matches. This person is not required to have passed a background check.

**Game Volunteers**

Two volunteers from each team are required at every match. Spectators should
anticipate this need and volunteer willingly to fulfill these roles as matches
cannot commence until these volunteers are in place. The roles of the volunteers
are:

1.  Referee Liaison. Assist the referee when asked to do so. The Referee
    Liaison's job is to control the behavior of their teams spectators, warning
    them politely to stop any misbehavior. They should not confront spectators
    from the opposition, but submit a report to WYSA if they witness improper
    conduct. This person will must be listed on the the matches official game
    sheet

2.  Linesman. Signal when the ball goes out of bounds by raising the linesman
    flag.

**Spectators**

Spectators are expected to follow the CYSA Code of Conduct at all times.
Spectators must sit on the spectator side of the field which is opposite the
team and match officials and ensure there is space for the linesman to travel
freely without stepping onto the field of play and/or for players to put the
ball back in play.

**Referees **

Referees are assigned for each match. All referees must be shown respect and
courtesy at all times. The referees, regardless of age, have authority over the
entire game. Examples of this authority are:

-   To disallow a player from participating in a match due to improper or unsafe
    equipment.

-   Present a Yellow or Red card to a player or coach for unsafe, disrespectful
    or abusive behavior, at their discretion.

-   Dismiss a spectator from the field if they are being disruptive.

-   Abandon a game because of un-safe weather.

-   Stop, suspend or abandon a game for any offences or because of outside
    interference from spectators.

Relevant quote from *FIFA Laws of the Game 2017/2018*:

"The decisions of the referee regarding facts connected with play, including
whether or not a goal is scored and the result of the match, are final. The
decisions of the referee, and all other match officials, must always be
respected.

The referee may not change a decision on realizing that it is incorrect or on
the advice of another match official if play has restarted or the referee has
signaled the end of the first or second half (including extra time) and left the
field of play or terminated the match."

There is a serious problem with youth referees choosing not to stay in the
referee program in their later teen years and into adulthood. The main reason
for this is intimidation and abusive treatment by coaches and parents. Abuse of
a referee at any age will not be tolerated.

Show your support for the game by being respectful and supportive of the
referees.

**Equipment**

A full kit including a numbered jersey, soccer socks and soccer shorts are
provided to each player and are theirs to keep. Players will also need to
provide their own shin pads, soccer cleats, and a water bottle. It is also
recommended that each player bring a regulation size 5 ball to practices.

**Official Rules:**

[WYSA Rules and
Regulations](http://www.winnipegyouthsoccer.com/files/wysa_rules_and_regulations_-_approved_4-26-17_-_website.pdf)  
  
[FIFA Laws of the Game
2017/2018](https://www.fifa.com/mm/Document/FootballDevelopment/Refereeing/02/90/11/67/Lawsofthegame2017-2018-EN_Neutral.pdf)
